(MALEVA READING)
Show yourself!
I know you're out there.
(EXCLAIMS)
(ROARS)
(GASPS)
Help!
Help me!
(GRUNTING)
Somebody help me!
Help!
LAWRENCE: Alas! Poor Yorick.
I knew him. Horatio.
A fellow of infinite jest.
of most excellent fancy.
He hath borne me on his back
a thousand times.
and now. how abhorred
in my imagination it is!
My gorge rises at it.
Here hung those lips...
(PEOPLE LAUGHING)
- Excuse me.
-CLIVE: This is a private party. miss.
My name is Gwen Conliffe.
and I'm engaged to your brother. Ben.
Is Ben here?
No.
I'm afraid no one knows where Ben is.
which is why I'm here.
Clive.
Well. boys and girls.
let's repair to the tavern!
Good night. sweet prince.
I seem to recall. Miss Conliffe...
I seem to recall he mentioned you
in one of his letters.
And it's quite uncharacteristic of
my brother to treat a lady in such a way.
but the character of man
is such a shift able thing.
You misapprehend me.
Benjamin is missing from Blackmoor.
He's gone.
Did my father send you?
No. I'm here on my own.
It's been nearly a month
since anyone has seen Ben.
and we knew that you were in London.
I'd hoped you had received some word.
Why do you think he's in trouble?
Because the night he went missing.
two villagers were killed.
Would you help us?
Miss Conliffe.
I am under contract
for the next 30 performances.
If this is about your father.
I know how you feel.
Do you?
My company leaves for America tomorrow.
I simply can't help.
He is your brother.
Good night.
It must be a wonderful luxury.
doing battle with imaginary demons.
Mr. Talbot.
Mine right now are very real.
Your mother?
Yes.
My oldest memories of my mother.
we are gathering grapes
in her father's vineyard.
It is my Garden of Eden.
You're paying yours a visit?
No. my mother died
not long after this was made.
My father and my brother.
they live near Blackmoor.
A man needs a good stick on the moor.
I purchased this one in Gévaudan
lifetimes ago.
It's the work of a master silversmith.
Would you do me the honor?
It's beautiful.
It will give me great pleasure
to know that it was in the keeping of
a civilized man.
Its heft is somewhat too much
for me these days.
You're overly kind.
But I'm afraid I must refuse it.
As you wish.
(DOOR CREAKING)
Hello?
(BIRDS TWITTERING)
(WINGS FLUTTERING)
(SNARLING)
Samson!
Lawrence?
Hello. Father.
Ah.
Lo and behold. the prodigal son returns.
I hope you're not
expecting the fatted calf.
(SAMSON GROWLS)
Stay!
We don't have many visitors.
You seem well.
I've often wondered what you look like.
You've come about your brother. have you?
Stay.
Yes.
Miss Conliffe learned that
I was in London...
(SAMSON CONTINUES GROWLING)
- Samson.
- ...and sent me a letter
saying that Ben has disappeared.
I thought I'd offer my help
in any which way I can.
Yes. what a splendid idea. Lawrence.
A splendid idea.
Too late. I'm afraid.
Unfortunately. your brother's body
was found in a ditch by the
priory road yesterday morning.
I assume you have something
to wear for the funeral.
SINGH: Sir John.
You remember my son. Lawrence?
Singh. my servant.
Master Lawrence.
It's nice to see you. Lawrence.
It's good that you're here.
Has Miss Conliffe been notified?
Mmm-hmm.
She's upstairs in her bedroom. asleep.
(PIANO PLAYING)
Where are they keeping Ben's body?
Your father instructed me to
bury your brother's effects with him.
It seems a shame.
Thank you.
I wouldn't. sir. It's...
I missed his whole life.
(PEOPLE LAUGHING)
MONTFORD: What if it wasn't a beast at all.
but a cunning murderer?
Someone who bore a grudge
against one of these men.
To misdirect the authorities.
he kills the men.
and then he tears up the bodies to make it
look like a wild beast was responsible.
Ridiculous!
Who would go to such lengths?
What about that gypsy dancing bear?
It could have done it.
(SCOFFS) That mangy thing?
Kill three men? I doubt it.
I saw the bodies with my own eyes.
Unnatural wounds. Most unnatural.
Made by a fell creature. I say.
Damn gypsies wandering the countryside.
bringing their woe and deviltry with them.
They show up.
and two weeks later this happens!
My guess is Ben Talbot went to their
camp to have it off with a gypsy whore.
The bear gets hold of him. and they
dump what's left of him in the ditch!
Got nothing to do with the gypsies.
Twenty-five years ago now.
me Pa found him.
Quinn Noddy and all his flock.
Brains and guts and God-knows-what lying
all over the moor for a quarter mile.
And. Quinn. the look on his face.
Like he'd been eaten alive.
Whatever did it was big. had claws.
and didn't mind a load of buckshot.
After that. me Pa went home and
melted down me Ma's wedding spoons
and cast silver bullets on them.
Wouldn't leave the house on
a full moon from then on.
He thought it was a werewolf.
I still say that bear's to blame.
You'd think the Talbots
would've learned their lesson. eh?
Consorting with the Romas.
Right. Remember that black-eyed
Salome the old man married?
Went crazy up there in the ward.
killed herself.
She was a gypo whore queen
or some such. wasn't she?
LAWRENCE: Yes.
She was crazy
for coming to this shithole
you call a town.
What did he say?
You're in your drink. boy.
Get him out of my tavern. Nye!
- Come on. lad.
- If you want to do something about it.
I'll be outside.
My mother wasn't a whore.
Lawrence Talbot?
(INDISTINCT CHATTERING)
SIR JOHN: Good evening.
Please join us. It's good to
see you up and about.
Refreshed. recovered and
as enchanting as ever.
Please. join us.
- Good evening. Miss Conliffe.
- Good evening.
What a pleasant surprise.
May I recommend the baked eel?
Singh has outdone himself
this evening. haven't you. Singh?
Something plainer.
Thank you.
I was a moment ago telling my son
that the telegraph system does reach us
here in lonely old Blackmoor.
Do you find your home much changed.
Mr. Talbot?
Blackmoor does seem
rather the same as I left it.
How so?
The villagers. they still have
the same wild ideas.
Yes. well. they're a provincial lot.
I must say.
ignorant and superstitious to a
worldly man such as yourself.
We're savages at the ends of the earth.
I didn't intend to start a squabble.
All I'm saying is that you dismiss
the natural man at your peril.
That's all.
I find your insecurities
quite strange. Father.
No. you mistake that for
my self-awareness.
And how comfortable are you
in your skin. may I ask?
- One can get used to anything.
- Excuse me.
You know. Lawrence. I've never
understood what it is that you do.
pretending to be other people.
But I understand you're highly
celebrated and famous for it.
Perhaps one day I'll see for myself
what all the fuss is about.
I think your mother would've liked that.
She loved you and your
brother with all her heart.
Why did she do it?
She struggled with life. as we all do.
She lost.
Does that answer your question?
I saw Ben's body today.
What kind of animal could have
done such a thing?
I've seen the work of a
Kodiak bear and a Bengal tiger.
nature at its most vicious.
but I must say. I've never
seen anything like this.
People in town say it was a man.
(CHUCKLES)
You mean a raving lunatic
at loose on the moor?
Yes. it's possible. but I think I would
have run him down with my dogs.
On the other hand.
the wounds are so terrible
that only something human
would seem capable of such
wanton malevolence.
I found a strange medallion
among Ben's belongings.
Yes. Saint Columbanus.
He was an Eastern saint.
He was also a gypsy.
So did Ben have dealings with the gypsies?
Yes. he was our negotiator.
The local gentry would pay a fee.
and the gypsies would keep their
criminal activities to a minimum.
And they would move on once
they'd sold the local lads all the wine
and dark-haired ladies they could stand.
"That or bed maiden with white fire laden.
Whom mortals call the moon.
"Glides glimmering o'er
my fleece-like floor..."
"By the midnight breezes strewn."
SIR JOHN: She exerts enormous power.
doesn't she?
I wish things were different.
Never look back. Lawrence.
Never look back.
The past is a wilderness of horrors.
Lawrence. I'm glad you're home.
(SOFT KNOCKING ON DOOR)
Can I help you. sir?
I was hoping to have a
word with Miss Conliffe.
Just a moment. sir.
(DOOR OPENING)
Miss Conliffe.
My behavior was unacceptable.
These were Ben's.
He'd want you to have them.
If there's anything you need.
anything at all. please let me know.
I want to know what happened to him.
I'll do everything I can.
Thank you.
Thank you for coming.
(CHILDREN WHISPERING)
(CHILDREN STIFLING LAUGHTER)
(CHILDREN GIGGLING)
(LAUGHING)
YOUNG LAWRENCE: Mother!
Mother!
YOUNG BEN: (WHISPERING) Lawrence.
Lawrence.
(DISTANT SCREAMING)
(WHISPERING) Lawrence. wake up.
I heard something.
(WHISPERING) Lawrence.
Lawrence. I'm scared.
Go back to bed.
(GROWLING)
Mother?
Mother!
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
- Hello.
Ben said that you played here as children.
It was our refuge.
From what?
You mean from whom.
Your father.
he has a way with being distant.
Ben told me it was because
I reminded him of your mother.
He said you did. as well.
Which is why he put me in
an asylum for a whole year.
then shipped me off to my aunt in America.
SIR JOHN: You sure you won't
stay one more night?
My father has lodgings at the inn.
and that's more convenient
for the train. so...
When do you return to London?
Not till I find out what
happened to my brother.
(WHIP CRACKS)
(HORSE NEIGHS)
Lawrence. that's all well and good.
but I think your inquiry
could wait until tomorrow.
The moon is full tonight.
and I'd prefer that you stay inside
in the event that your raving
lunatic theory is correct.
I don't want to lose you. too.
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
(DOG BARKING)
Take your horse. sir?
Good evening.
(SPEAKING ROMANI)
He says you must stay in the camp.
The woods are not safe.
Ask him if he knows
anyone who sells these.
BOY: You want to talk to Maleva.
-LAWRENCE: To who?
- Maleva.
It was found on my brother's body.
Your caravan shows up.
three men are killed.
I don't think it's a coincidence.
There is no coincidence.
Only fate.
But she plays a hidden hand.
Tell me about my brother.
(MEN CLAMORING)
(WHISTLING)
MAN: Run round the back!
(ROARS)
(PEOPLE CLAMORING)
(MAN SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY)
Give us the bloody bear.
you old snake handler.
We know what's been going on.
Nonsense. He dances. that's all.
(POLICE WHISTLE BLOWING)
Come on! Get off!
What's going on here?
We've come for the bear. Nye.
It done all the killing.
(SIGHS) For goodness' sake! He's harmless.
(ROARING)
(MAN SCREAMING)
(GURGLING)
(PEOPLE SCREAMING)
(SCREAMING)
- What happened?
- It's the Devil! The Devil!
(HORSE NEIGHING)
(ROARS)
(SCREAMS)
Mama! Mama!
Maria!
Maria! Where are you. Maria?
MAN: Over there!
Maria!
(GROWLING)
(SCREAMING)
Mama!
- Mama!
- My baby.
Take the girl. Stay in the camp.
LAWRENCE: Boy!
Boy!
(WINGS FLUTTERING)
(ROCK CLATTERS)
(GROWLING)
(LAWRENCE SCREAMING)
(GUNSHOTS)
Go back. get help!
(GASPING)
MAN: Get Maleva!
WOMAN: Once he is bitten by the beast.
there is no cure.
You should let him die.
You would make me a sinner.
WOMAN: There is no sin in killing a beast.
Is there not?
(PANTING)
(SPEAKING ROMANI)
Sometimes the way of fate is a cruel one.
He can only be released by
someone who loves him.
(GROANING)
(SPEAKING ROMANI)
Whoa!
Lawrence.
Holy Mother of God.
Help me with him. Singh.
(COUGHING)
(GROWLING)
(GASPING)
"Do thou but thine and
be not diffident of wisdom
"She deserts thee not
if thou dismiss not her"
ls everything all right?
(CLANKING)
Lawrence?
Get Dr. Lloyd.
Are you all right?
Yes. I feel better.
(WATER DRIPPING)
I thought you were leaving.
Well. this place is impossible to escape.
Besides. it's the least I could do.
What did the gypsies say?
Some nonsense about
the Devil being at Blackmoor.
It's remarkable.
A week ago. I would have said
you'd never use that arm again.
And now?
DR. LLOYD: It seems to have healed itself.
I'll be back to check on you
at the end of the week.
Thank you. Doctor.
- Miss Conliffe.
- Yes?
- I want to thank you.
- For?
For prolonging your stay here at Blackmoor
with us during this difficult time.
Had there been some sense
of filial obedience.
well. you would not
have been inconvenienced.
Well. Lawrence was trying to
find out what happened to Ben.
And now we know it's still out there.
Nevertheless. I thank you.
Not at all.
You should be asleep. Lawrence.
So should you.
Is there anything I can get for you?
Are you expecting a war?
A Sikh is a warrior of God. He must
always arm himself against evil.
Do you believe in curses?
This house has seen more
than its share of suffering.
Your mother. Your brother.
Yes. I believe in curses.
How could you stand it
here all these years?
You didn't have to stay.
Silver.
I didn't know you hunted monsters.
Sometimes monsters hunt you.
Yes. he's been quite
seriously injured. Inspector.
and he's suffering from a loss of memory.
I don't think he could be
of any use to you now.
Well. I think. at some point.
he is going to want to talk about...
- No.
- I do understand.
Only if I could have just
a few words with him.
- No.
- A completely unofficial interview.
Even the briefest exchange
could be infinitely helpful to me.
(SAMSON BARKS)
Francis Aberline. Scotland Yard.
Honored to meet you. Mr. Talbot.
I'm a huge admirer.
I'm sorry to hear of your troubles.
I do hope they won't impede
your return to the stage.
- Thank you. Shall we?
- Please.
LAWRENCE: It was an animal.
ABERLINE: You're quite sure?
What else could it have been?
There are other witnesses. no doubt.
that had a better look than I did.
Well...
Not too good a look. I'm afraid.
None of the locals survived to tell of it.
and the gypsies only talk
of demons and devils.
I understood your injury was quite savage.
Yes.
I hope you don't find this prurient.
but would it be possible for me
to arrange for a specialist
to examine you?
It's amazing what we can discern
by scientific means these days.
And at your convenience. of course.
Of course.
No. a great mystery. it is.
given that there are no
natural predators left in England
capable of inflicting
such horrific injuries.
Well. the savagery of the attack
would suggest the action of an animal.
Or a lunatic. perhaps.
Someone with a history
of mental disturbance.
who'd spent time inside an asylum
and who may have suffered injuries
at the hands of his victims.
I get your implication and resent it.
You're clearly aware of my personal
history. as I believe I am aware of yours.
Weren't you in charge of the
Ripper case a couple of years back?
Well. you're a direct man.
so I'll be equally direct with you.
I'm not your enemy. Mr. Talbot.
But you've been seen as Hamlet. Macbeth.
Richard Ill. all with that same face.
Now a prudent man would ask who else
might be living inside that head of yours.
Good day. Inspector.
So you won't mind if I establish
your whereabouts on
the nights in question?
Feel free.
Good day. Mr. Talbot.
I'll be sending my specialists to examine
you at your convenience. of course.
(ROARS)
Lawrence?
- Yeah.
- You all right?
- Yes.
- What did the Inspector say?
Well. he asked a lot of questions.
I'm sorry. I feel so responsible
for what's happened to you.
If I hadn't sent that letter.
you'd be back in New York.
No. No. It was right
that I came back.
You mustn't feel like that.
No.
- (GIGGLING)
- Try it.
Well. I can't make it skip like you.
You have to flick it.
- May I?
- Yes.
When you throw it.
turn your wrist up and whip it.
Wrist up and whip it.
And make sure you swing your hips.
(LAUGHING)
What's it like in New York?
(HORSES NEIGHING LOUDLY)
(GIGGLING)
Do you hear that?
What?
Horses.
Hello. Doctor. I thought our
appointment wasn't till Friday.
Come with us.
It's nearly the full moon.
You were bitten by the beast.
You bear his mark now.
STRICKLAND: Mr. Talbot.
There are many of us here who are
looking for a natural explanation.
- Help us.
- Come on. Talbot. Show us your wound.
We are told it heals in an unnatural way.
(HORSE SNORTING)
(NEIGHING)
Get your hands off of me.
Will you let him murder
your wives and children?
(GUNSHOT)
(NEIGHS)
(EXCLAIMS)
(GROANING)
MONTFORD: My eyes! Damn you. Talbot!
Sorry. Colonel. I meant to shoot you.
Sadly. I'm not the marksman
I used to be. I must be getting old.
He's cursed. God has forsaken him.
Let us deal with him.
You know you're trespassing
on my land.
and I could shoot you
on the spot right now.
My Sikh manservant. he's on the roof.
and he happens to be a crack shot
with a repeating rifle.
And he will kill you.
He'll kill the next eight of you
before he has to reload.
so please take yourself off my land.
And if I see any of you
trespassing this way again.
I won't be so civil.
if you take my meaning.
Good day to you. Colonel.
Lawrence.
You're bleeding.
How could they possibly think
he's a threat to them?
Well. he's a stranger here in Blackmoor.
Miss Conliffe.
and that makes him very dangerous.
Thank you.
Yes. You can also thank Singh
when he returns from the village.
You're not the only one in
the family who can act.
Samson!
(SAMSON GRUNTS)
Let's get something to clean that.
Did they hurt your shoulder?
No.
On the contrary. it feels
much stronger than before.
That's good.
I was able to hold them...
All three of them back.
You know. you mustn't
listen to them. The villagers.
They're backward and foolish.
Everything I hate about this place.
(HEART BEATING)
(WHISPERING) This might sting a bit.
Lawrence.
Excuse me.
(BANGING ON DOOR)
- What's happened?
- You have to leave.
Please pack your things.
Did I do something?
It's not safe here.
You must return to London tonight.
I'll be out here waiting.
Lawrence. wait.
What are you afraid of?
If anything ever happened to you.
I'd never forgive myself.
(DRIVER URGES HORSE)
(WHIP CRACKS)
REVEREND FISK: There are those who
doubt the power of Satan.
The power of Satan to
change men into beasts!
But the ancient pagans did not doubt.
Nor did the prophets.
Did not Daniel warn Nebuchadnezzar?
But the proud king did not heed Daniel.
And so. as the Bible says. "He was made
as unto a wolf and cast out from men."
A beast has come among us.
But God will defend his faithful.
With his right hand.
he will smite the foul demon.
I say to you. the enemy's
ploy is a devious one.
Twisting the accursed into beasts.
he seeks to bring us low.
Make us as animals.
Teach us self-loathing.
so we forget that we are made
in the image of Almighty God himself!
(GROWLING MENACINGLY)
Samson.
(GROWLING)
Why does our Lord tolerate this mockery?
"Pride goeth before destruction.
a haughty spirit before the fall."
I say it is becausewe have
sinned against him.
Because our crimes reek to heaven.
and they demand vengeance.
(ALL CHATTERING IN LOW VOICES)
(CHATTERING STOPS)
Pint of bitter. please.
Mrs. Kirk.
Why aren't you out with MacQueen.
trying to catch that thing
what killed my husband?
As I don't know where
the lunatic will strike.
it seems the practical thing to do
is to stay as near as possible to
the potential victims.
(MAN SPITTING OUT DRINK)
(COUGHING)
And seeing that 214 of the 309 residents
of Blackmoor and its environs
live within. what.
500 yards of this tavern.
I was planning to spend
the evening here.
Not Talbot Hall?
Why would you say that?
They're cursed. all of them.
Unfortunately. "cursed"
does not give me a warrant
to wander about
Sir John's estate at night.
Rules. Mrs. Kirk.
They're all that keep us from a
dog-eat-dog world. you know.
Pint of bitter. please.
(HUMPHS)
Lawrence.
Miss Conliffe has left Blackmoor.
Yes. I sent her away.
She's probably in London by now.
Why would you do that. Lawrence?
Because this place is cursed.
Father.
It is a shrine to your beloved mother.
She was truly a beautiful woman.
I know that losing her wounded you deeply.
And it is monstrous. a young boy
seeing his mother like that.
And I would have given my life. Lawrence.
that you hadn't found us that night.
You must believe me when
I tell you this. Lawrence.
You do believe me. don't you?
I loved your mother with a passion
like the burning of the sun.
Her death finished me.
I was devastated.
I still prowl the house at night.
searching for her.
I'm dead all the same.
Look into my eyes. Lawrence.
You see. I'm quite dead.
My dear fellow.
I wish I could tell you
that the tragedy that has
beset your life was over.
But I'm afraid the darkest hours
of hell lie before you.
I don't think they'll kill you. Lawrence.
but they will blame you.
The beast will have its day.
The beast will out.
(GRUNTS)
(KNUCKLES CRACKING)
(GASPING)
(GRUNTING)
(GROANING)
(GROWLING)
(ROARING)
(MOANING)
(SNARLING)
(HOWLING)
(CLAMORING)
(HORSE NEIGHING)
(GRUNTING)
(DEER BELLING)
We've got him. men! We got him!
Mind the pit. Johnny!
(EXCLAIMING)
- Johnny?
- Help me get out!
Shoot it! Shoot him!
(GROWLING)
(SCREAMING)
Johnny!
Johnny?
(SCREAMING)
MONTFORD: MacQueen!
(GUNSHOTS)
(SCREAMING)
(GUN CLICKS)
(MONTFORD SCREAMING)
(PANTING)
(WHIMPERING)
(DR. LLOYD SCREAMING)
(SCREAMING STOPS)
(SNARLING)
(HOWLING)
SIR JOHN: (WHISPERING) Lawrence.
Lawrence.
Lawrence!
Wake up.
Lawrence.
Terrible things. Lawrence.
You've done terrible things.
(GASPING)
(GUNSHOTS)
MAN: Hold your fire! We want him alive!
Get down! On your knees!
Ah. 'tis as you said. Inspector.
It is as you said.
I'm sorry. Sir John.
SIR JOHN: Be strong. Lawrence.
Be strong.
(DOOR SLAMMING)
Where is my father?
I am sorry to see you back here
with us. Lawrence.
You disappoint me.
But we have made enormous strides
in the treatment of
delusions such as yours.
Where is my father?
(SCREAMING)
Bracing. is it. guv'ner?
(EXCLAIMS WEAKLY)
(GASPING) Where's my father?
(SHOUTING) Where's my father?
Where is my father?
(SCREAMING)
I said if you don't kill my father.
he will kill again and again
and again and again.
(SCREAMING)
"Prithee. Horatio. tell me one thing.
Dost thou think Alexander looked
o' this fashion i' the earth?
And smelt so? And smelt so?"
I hope this won't impede
your return to the stage.
Alas. poor Yorick!
YOUNG BEN'S VOICE: Lawrence. wake up.
I heard something.
SIR JOHN: Terrible things. Lawrence.
(DOOR CREAKING)
Terrible things.
(GASPING)
Father!
(COUGHING)
(SCREAMING)
Look into my eyes. Lawrence.
You see. I'm quite dead.
GWEN: It's all right. Lawrence.
Everything's all right.
I'm going to take you home.
Come with me.
It's all right. Come on.
It's all right.
Hold me.
Just hold me.
(ROARS)
(GASPS)
Shh.
It's not real.
(ROARS)
(METAL GEARS CLAN KING)
SIR JOHN: Lycanthropy.
Yeah. lycanthropy.
(INHALES DEEPLY)
I contracted the disease. if that's
what it is. in India in the Hindu Kush.
The natives directed me to a
cave high up in the mountains.
where. according to legend.
lived a strange creature.
A very strange creature.
And after a great many days
of climbing and searching.
finally. I came upon it. I found it.
I found the cave. and the
strange creature that lived there.
Yeah.
It was a little boy.
a little wild feral boy.
powerfully strong.
(SNARLING)
(CHUCKLES)
Who suddenly attacked me and bit me.
So I returned to my hunting companions
in the valley below
thinking I'd been made the butt of a joke.
(CHUCKLES)
I soon discovered otherwise.
(SNARLS)
You killed my mother.
Yeah. I suppose I did.
You should kill yourself.
Oh. I cannot tell you how
often I've considered that.
But life is far too glorious. Lawrence.
especially to the cursed and
the damned like myself.
Yeah.
Every night of the full moon.
for many years. I've been
locked away in that crypt
by Singh. my faithful servant.
Twenty-five years.
(SIGHS)
Then she came. didn't she?
Hot and burning like the face of the moon.
Gwen?
Yeah. she would have taken
your brother away from me.
and they would have both
vanished into the night forever.
And although I was resigned to it.
the beast in me was not.
And. Ben. you understand.
had come to tell me
that he was quite resolute in his decision
to leave Talbot Hall for good
and to take Gwen away from me.
I became drunk and violent.
and extremely violent.
And I struck out at Singh.
who was trying to restrain me.
(LAUGHS)
And I knocked him out cold.
Poor... Poor old Singh.
Yeah.
You know. I never told you this.
Lawrence.
but I used to be a
bare-knuckle prize fighter
when I was a young man
in the ports of Boston.
San Francisco. New York.
Back in the good old days.
before you were born.
Long time ago.
Barn!
Yeah.
Anyway. as a consequence. I was unable
to lock myself in the crypt that night.
And I found your brother's body
in a ditch not far from the house.
He'd been torn to pieces.
I know now it was a mistake
to lock up the beast.
Don't you think so. Lawrence?
I should have let it run free.
Kill or be killed.
I'll kill you!
(GRUNTS)
You have a long way to go yet.
my young pup.
I'll kill you.
Oh your chance is coming soon enough.
She'll be full tonight. the moon.
I have a small gift for you. Lawrence.
in the event you don't find life
as glorious as I find it to be.
Or not to be.
I'm deeply sorry about this. Lawrence.
I do love you. dear boy.
You may find that hard to believe.
in the light of what has happened.
LAWRENCE: I'll kill you.
- SIR JOHN: Sleep now.
- LAWRENCE: I'll kill you.
SIR JOHN: Rest.
- Guard?
- LAWRENCE: I'll kill you!
LAWRENCE: I'll kill you!
(PLAYING HARMONICA)
(CHURCH BELL DINGING)
DR. HOENEGGER: I attempted to remove
these mental fabrications.
but now. 25 years later.
I find that young Lawrence's
harmless hallucinations
have manifested themselves
into delusions of a horrific nature.
Ah!
Mr. Talbot.
(GROANING)
We are here tonight to
illustrate conclusively
that Mr. Talbot's fears
are quite irrational.
So we will remain in this room together.
and once Mr. Talbot has witnessed
that the full moon holds
no sway over him.
that he remains a perfectly
ordinary human being.
he will have taken his first small step
down the long road to mental recovery.
(AUDIENCE MURMURING)
Now. we are all aware that Mr. Talbot
has suffered quite traumatic
personal experiences.
He witnessed his mother's
self-mutilations.
His young mind. unable to accept it.
created a fantastical truth.
that his father is to blame.
That his father is literally
a monster.
(AUDIENCE MURMURING)
But your father is not a werewolf.
You were not bitten by a werewolf.
You will not become a werewolf
any more than I will sprout wings
and fly out of that window.
(ALL LAUGHING)
(MUFFLED) Please. please. help me.
I think that Mr. Talbot
has something to say to us.
(COUGHING)
(SOFTLY) Stop it.
Speak up. Mr. Talbot.
Forgive me. but we can't hear you.
You moron.
Tonight. I will kill all of you!
(ALL LAUGHING)
I will kill all of you!
Yes. well. as you can see. lycanthropy...
- Please do something about it!
- ...is a disease of the mind
existing somewhere...
- Kill me.
- ...in the deep recesses...
...of Mr. Talbot's thoughts.
- (GROANING)
- To him. it seems very real.
(JOINTS CRACKING)
The subject before you has.
for the past month.
undergone both pharmaceutical
and physical desensitizing
(GROANING)
In order to reduce the
nervous exaggerations.
(GRUNTING)
(GASPING)
(CONTINUES CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY)
(GROWLING)
Dr. Hoenegger?
This malady derives from...
(LAWRENCE GROWLING)
MAN: Doctor!
Doctor!
(GROWLING)
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
Let me pass!
(ALL SCREAMING)
MAN: For God's sake. hurry up!
(SCREAMING)
- Open... Open this door!
- It seems to be locked. sir.
(SCREAMING)
Idiot! Open it!
(SHOUTING)
Smash open this door!
Help me!
(SCREAMING)
(ROARING)
(GROWLING SOFTLY)
(HOWLING)
- Davis?
- Yes. sir?
- Are you armed?
- Yes. sir.
Give me your revolver! Quickly!
(WOMEN EXCLAIMING)
(EXCLAIMING)
Pardon me.
Excuse me.
As you were.
- Carter!
- Sir.
- Have you got a pistol?
- Yes. sir.
Follow me.
- Telegraph the Yard. Issue weapons.
- All right. sir.
- Now!
- Right away. sir!
I don't suppose we have
any silver bullets.
What?
(WOMEN SCREAMING)
(WHISTLE BLOWING)
(SCREAMING)
Clear the street!
(GROWLS)
(SCREAMING)
MAN: Oh. my God!
You two. with me.
(ALL SCREAMING)
Steady.
(HOWLING)
God help us.
(DRINKING)
(HORSE WHINNIES)
(HORSES CLOMPING OVERHEAD)
MAN 1: Up ahead!
MAN 2: Start checking the docks!
(POLICE WHISTLE BLOWING)
(THUDDING)
(SOFT MOANING)
(SOFT GASP)
(WOOD CREAKING)
Who's there?
Lawrence?
- (GASPING)
- What are you doing here?
(GRUNTS)
What have they done to you?
I am what they say I am.
I'm a monster.
And so is my father.
He killed Ben.
And my mother. too.
I can help you.
There's no help for me.
If such things exist.
if they are possible.
then everything is.
Magic.
And God.
I can find a way to stop it.
I must confess.
I envy my brother for the
days he had with you.
What joy he must have felt.
I would have given anything I own
to have known you in another life.
I must get back to
Talbot Hall and end this.
Lawrence.
Please let me help you.
You already have.
Lawrence. don't.
Just stay here with me.
Stay here with me!
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
(KNOCKING INSISTENTLY)
Miss Conliffe. good morning.
Inspector.
May I impose?
I must ask you directly.
have you seen Lawrence Talbot?
I'm sure by now you've
heard of his escape.
Yes. I've heard.
And. no. I haven't seen him.
Miss Conliffe. I cannot stress to you
enough the mortal peril you're in
should you find yourself in his presence.
Thank you. I'll be careful.
Miss Conliffe.
I admire your noble intentions.
You think you can save him. but you can't.
I must insist you come with me.
- Insist? He's not...
- Carter!
He's not here. Inspector!
Take your hand off me.
- Come on!
- Take your hand off me!
Come on now. woman!
Talbot?
Raise your arms and step out
where I can see you.
Talbot?
- No!
- Come now! Come along!
Now there's some bad luck for you.
Globe! Globe!
Lawrence Talbot is still missing!
Police scour London!
Globe! Globe!
Lawrence Talbot is still missing!
Police scour London!
(SPEAKING ROMANI)
I'm looking for a woman called Maleva.
Do you know her?
(SPEAKING ROMANI)
Thank you.
Psst.
What is it you want from me?
Lawrence Talbot.
You know what happened to him.
You understand it. Listen to me.
I need you to help me.
Leave him to his fate.
I have to save him.
Do you love him?
Just tell me what to do.
Will you condemn him?
Or will you
set him free?
Do you know what that means?
Yes.
But I can't. I can't do that.
He's still there.
I know he is.
I know I can save him.
I'm begging you. tell me what to do.
There is no cure.
You are risking your life.
May the saints protect you and
give you strength to do what you must.
DRIVER: Whoa! Whoa. there!
You're sure he'll come?
Yeah. quite sure.
Right.
Take the priory road.
Railway station.
South garden to the river.
Tell Sir John we're here.
and then stay close to the estate.
but not too close.
If you see Talbot.
don't get caught in a conversation.
Shoot him and kill him.
On sight!
(DOOR CREAKING)
Carter hasn't reported.
He's not at his post
in front of the house.
ABERLINE: Miss Conliffe?
Wait!
Get the others.
(WIND WHISTLING)
(WOOD CREAKING)
(BARKING)
(GROWLING)
(PANTING)
(GASPS)
(THUDDING)
(SAMSON BARKING)
Samson.
(PLAYING RESUMES)
(HUMMING)
"I will arise and go to my father.
and I will say unto him. 'Father. I have
sinned against heaven and before thee.
I am no more worthy
to be called thy son."'
(STOPS PLAYING)
And lo and behold. there he stands.
The prodigal son. For he is returned.
Shall I have my own robe brought
to be placed upon your shoulders?
Rings for your fingers?
Shoes for your feet?
What you should do is pray. but we
both know it wouldn't do any good.
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
Are those Singh's silver bullets
in my gun?
I'm sorry.
You have me at a disadvantage.
It makes me happy.
What does?
Seeing you here like this.
My son returned.
It is glorious. isn't it?
No. It's hell.
Hell?
No. The beast is the beast.
Let it run free.
(GUN CLICKS)
(EXCLAIMS)
Poor little Lawrence.
You were the fragile one.
I removed the powder from those
shells many. many years ago.
But I confess.
I was quite overwhelmed
by your enormous courage.
Finally. you're the man
I always wanted you to be.
Lawrence! My boy.
Here.
Do you see her. Lawrence?
Do you feel her presence? Her power?
She'll be here soon.
Coming from darkness into light.
You're heir to my kingdom. Lawrence.
(GROWLING) You've always been
heir to my kingdom.
(NECK CRACKS)
(GROANS)
(CRACKING)
(GROWLING)
(ROARING)
(HOWLS)
(GROANING)
(HOWLING IN PAIN)
(SCREAMING)
(HOWLING)
Lawrence. Lawrence!
(GROWLING)
No!
(SCREAMING)
Run! Run!
(DOGS BARKING)
- Are you sure you're all right. sir?
- Go on.
(GROWLING)
(BREATHING SHALLOWLY)
(SNIFFING)
(ROARING)
(GROWLING)
Look at me. Lawrence. You know me.
You know who I am.
Don't. You know who I am!
Lawrence! Don't.
(GROWLING)
Look at me.
Lawrence. you know me.
You know me. remember me. look at me.
(GROWLING SOFTLY)
It's Gwen.
Lawrence. it's Gwen. Please.
(GROWLING SOFTLY)
(DOGS BAYING)
(HOWLING)
(DOGS BARKING)
(LAWRENCE HOWLING)
No!
(GROWLING WEAKLY)
(WHISPERING) Gwen...
I'm sorry.
It had to be this way.
Thank you.
(SIGHING)
GWEN: It is said there is no sin
in killing a beast.
only in killing a man.
But where does one begin
and the other end?
(HOWLING)